about.md, before:

---
layout: default
title: nixing around
---

## Welcome | About

This blog attempts to be the sort of resource I used to always hope for when I was getting started with linux.  It's intended for people who are way out of their depth, but still want to forge ahead with their cool project.  This is where I record how I did my projects, step by step, with no assumptions of prior knowledge except how to paste into a linux command line.

Memories of complex procedures tend to be transient, so this also helps me remember.  I also find that tracking each step helps me stay focused.  So, in essence, this is a programmer's research journal.


## How to use this site

Use the _explore_ button to see a sorted list of all posts on the site and to access the search function.  Alternately, the sidebar lists the categories of posts available to browse.

## Notes

This site was transferred from [Google Blogger](https://nixingaround.blogspot.com/2017/10/final-post-here.html), so most of the oldest pages have a slightly different style.  This is a result of being composed in blogger, rather than in Markdown format like the more recent posts.  [See here.](/2017/06/05/new-blog-location)

"\*nixing around" is a play on "messing around" and "\*nix", which is used to refer to several related operating systems, primarily including UNIX and Linux.

Commit message:

added note re lab notebook

about.md, after:

---
layout: default
title: nixing around
---

## Welcome | About

This blog attempts to be the sort of resource I used to always hope for when I was getting started with linux.  It's intended for people who are way out of their depth, but still want to forge ahead with their cool project.  This is where I record how I did my projects, step by step, with no assumptions of prior knowledge except how to paste into a linux command line.

Memories of complex procedures tend to be transient, so this also helps me remember.  I also find that tracking each step helps me stay focused.  So, in essence, this is a programmer's research journal*.

*and technically, [not a "lab notebook."](https://web.archive.org/web/20170705100803/https://www.training.nih.gov/assets/Lab_Notebook_508_(new).pdf)  It overlaps, but has more that isn't strictly within that definition.  

## How to use this site

Use the _explore_ button to see a sorted list of all posts on the site and to access the search function.  Alternately, the sidebar lists the categories of posts available to browse.

## Notes

This site was transferred from [Google Blogger](https://nixingaround.blogspot.com/2017/10/final-post-here.html), so most of the oldest pages have a slightly different style.  This is a result of being composed in blogger, rather than in Markdown format like the more recent posts.  [See here.](/2017/06/05/new-blog-location)

"\*nixing around" is a play on "messing around" and "\*nix", which is used to refer to several related operating systems, primarily including UNIX and Linux.
