---
layout: post
title: "The Zig Language, Session 1: Hello, World"
author: umhau
description: "Getting started with Zig"
tags: 
- Zig
- Zig 0.9
- Linux
- Hello World
categories: walkthroughs
---

I've been watching the [Zig language](https://ziglang.org/) for a while now. Like [some](https://www.freebsd.org/) [other](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Xen) [things](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Alpine_Linux) I'm interested in, the phrase "good engineering" seems appropriate.  The syntax hasn't stabilized yet, so this session focuses on the 0.9.1 version of the project. Far as I know, anything is subject to change.

### manual installation

First things first. Let's get ourselves downloaded and installed.  Download a copy of Zig from their [downloads page](https://ziglang.org/download/) and extract it. 

```shell
mkdir ~/zig
cd ~/zig
wget https://ziglang.org/download/0.9.1/zig-linux-x86_64-0.9.1.tar.xz
tar -xf zig-linux-x86_64-0.9.1.tar.xz
```

Now you can either add that location to your `PATH`, or you can just put the binary somewhere already on your `PATH`. 

_What's your `PATH`? It's the road of life laid before you, which you, oh weary traveler, must trod until the end of your days. May it bring you peace._

_Actually, it's how you're able to run programs directly from the commandline without specifying their location.  Ever think about how you can do `cd ~/zig` without having to say where the `cd` program is located? And no, it's not some builtin thing that just "comes with" your terminal program. Try `whereis cd` sometime. It's fun._

Now that we've extracted zig, we're just going to skip adding it to our path. That's annoying, because it's another folder we have to remember not to move, and we have to manually edit files. Let's just dump zig into `/usr/local/bin` and add a line to our system install script to do the whole thing automatically next time. 

_You have a system install script, don't you? A little script that you run when you set up a new machine, that gets everything set up just the way you like it? I love it. Doesn't require a lot of maintanence if you do it right, and it doesn't ever have to be totally manual either. Just enough automation that it holds your hand while you get it all running. (I guess, in a sense, it's your younger self holding your older self's hand. Now there's a strange thought.)_

```shell
sudo install ~/zig/zig-linux-x86_64-0.9.1/zig /usr/local/bin/zig
```

Then we can just run zig from anywhere: `zig build`

I don't think we need the `lib` folder that goes with the binary. If we do, there's two options: dump the entire `~/zig/zig-linux-x86_64-0.9.1` folder into `/usr/local/bin`, or add the folder to the `PATH`; or just install from the OS package manager.

### package manager installation

What OS are you on? I use Void Linux, though I'm working on transitioning to FreeBSD. 

```shell
# void
sudo xbps-install zig

# freebsd
doas pkg install -y xorg
```

### hello world

Verify the version of zig you installed. Note that Void seems to be running behind; might be this is a good time to be jumping off that ship. I think in the future Alping and FreeBSD might be my go-tos...a nice minimal linux, and a longstanding BSD.

```
zig version
```

Now let's make our first zig program. Create a file called `main.zig` and put the following inside:

```Zig
const std = @import("std");

pub fn main() void {
    std.debug.print("Hello, {s}!\n", .{"World"});
}
```

Then build and run it. 

```shell
zig run main.zig
```
